Note number	Note text
1	These data include vaccinations received between 8 December 2020 and !end_date!. These data only include third vaccinations that were received from 16 September 2021 onward. Third vaccination may refer to a booster vaccination or a third dose vaccination received as part of the primary course.
2	The study population consisted of people aged 18 years and over, alive on !end_date! who were resident in England, registered with a general practitioner (GP) in 2019 and were enumerated at the 2011 Census.
3	The study population was defined using the date of death occurrence. Therefore, some deaths may not be captured due to delays in deaths being registered. Deaths in England are normally registered within five days of occurrence, but there can be a considerably longer delay in some circumstances, particularly when the death is referred to a coroner.
4	Counts have been rounded to the nearest multiple of five and proportions have been calculated using these rounded counts. For this reason, counts may not sum to the population.
5	The age-standardised proportions presented are annualised directly age-standardised rates per 100 people, represented as a percentage. This is the number of people who have received a vaccination divided by the population for the relevant time period, standardised to the European Standard Population, multiplied by 100.
6	Cells with the value c have been suppressed due to small counts. Cells with the value x are not applicable due to small counts or it not being possible to calculate the value given the category or sub-category.
7	Age, sex, disability status, ethnic group, religion, country of birth, English language proficiency, National Statistics Socio-economic classification, educational attainment and household tenure were derived from the 2011 Census.
8	For Household tenure, Not classified includes people living in communal establishments at the time of the 2011 Census. For National Statistics Socio-economic classification, Not classified includes full-time students, people with insufficient occupation information and people in communal establishments at the time of the 2011 Census.
9	Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) quintile, region and rural or urban area were derived using the individual's resident address in the General Practice Extraction Service (GPES) data for pandemic planning and research; if this was not available, it was derived from the individual's resident address in the 2011 Census. IMD quintile was based on the English IMD, version 2019.
